
Tim Thompson

B.S. (1976) and M.S. (1978) in Computer Science from the
University of Illinois, Champaign-Urbana.  Working
for Bell Laboratories and using the UNIX System since 1978,
he has been involved in the development of computer-aided design
software for VLSI chips and high-frequency circuit packs,
tools for the design of optical systems, fax image processing,
and DSP development software.  His free time is spent working
on MIDI software.


The History of KeyKit
----------------------

The development of the KeyKit language began in 1986 (or so)
in response to the rigid interfaces and capabilities of the
sequencers available at that time.  Of course, the desire
to hack and have fun was also a strong motivation.  Although UNIX
Systems with MIDI interface were then (and are still now) rare,
it seemed that the meeting of those two standards was inevitable,
so the goal has always been to develop a tool that fits the style of the
UNIX System.  The inspiration and model for many of KeyKit's
features has been the awk language, coupled with the common UNIX System
philosophy of creating an application-specific ``little language''.

Version 1.0 of KeyKit was a very primitive BASIC-like language.
It used a recursive-descent parser and implemented loops by repeatedly
parsing the input.  There were a large number of built-in functions
for phrase manipulations, and very few phrase operators (ie. '+' did not
work on phrases, instead there was a serial() function).

Version 2.0 speeded things up considerably, and added real-time
capabilities, so that user-defined KeyKit functions could be
called, triggered by MIDI input messages.  By this time, the
potential of the system was fairly obvious, but the language was
far too primitive - illustrated by the tendency to implement new
phrase operations with built-in functions instead of writing them
in the KeyKit language.

Version 3.0 was virtually a complete rewrite.  The parsing was done
with a yacc grammar, and the language was pre-compiled into an
internal form that is then executed.  The structure of the software
was based on the 'hoc' program described in Kernighan & Pike's book
"The UNIX Programming Environment."   This resulted in a healthy
speed increase.  Phrase operations were added (+,-,|,{}), and most
of the built-in functions for phrase manipulations were (with great
delight) removed, since they could now be done fairly efficiently
and directly with user-defined KeyKit functions.

Version 4.0 added floating point numbers and graphics support.
Graphics were provided by a fairly small number of built-in functions
and special variables.  All of the graphical user interface (the
menus and all the operations they invoke) were implemented with
ordinary KeyKit code, which could be extended and modified by
users.  The extensibility of Version 4.0 was exciting.  Versions
4.1 and 4.2 were incremental improvements, generalizing a few
features and improving robustness.

Version 5.0 consisted of several aborted attempts at adding a multi-window
interface to KeyKit.  A first brief attempt used Open Look widgets.
I then realized that multi-tasking was a necessary attribute of a
multi-window interface, so multi-tasking was added.  Fifos were added to
standardize inter-task communication and other I/O.  Multi-window support
was built using only low-level functions, not using any machine-dependent
widgets.  I then built a simple but usable multi-window user interface using
a somewhat object-oriented implementation, where methods/messages were
triggered by sending them down fifos (each "tool" had a set of standard
fifos), using standardized message formats.  Each tool consisted of one or
more continuously-running tasks which monitored the fifos and reacted to
messages.  I demonstrated this system at a party at my house in 1992.
This version was never widely distributed.

Version 6.0 added object-oriented features, to provide direct language support
for the object-oriented style of the multi-window user interface.
Instead of tasks interpreting messages on fifos, the tools were defined
as classes with methods, and all interactions with and between tools was
done by invoking the methods.  The user interface for the multi-window
interface was completely re-written from scratch, adding a much richer
and complete set of tools.  Pull-off menus and buttons were a key attribute
of this new user interface.  Version 6.0 was finally "right", and I stopped
making fundamental changes to the language and started using it to
develop a full-fledged multi-track sequencer, drum pattern editor, and
lots of strange algorithmic toys.  There were many incremental versions
of 6.* (up to 6.6c) as tools in the GUI interface were continuously added
and enhanced.

Version 7.0 added support for multiple MIDI inputs and outputs
(on Windows only, initially).

Development of KeyKit was first done using an Atari ST, then an IBM PC clone,
then a UNIX System with X windows, and then Windows NT.
Portability has always been an overriding consideration - the software
is portable to a wide variety of machines.  It its lifetime, KeyKit
has run on the following machine types, operating systems, and displays:

    Atari ST, DOS, UNIX PC, Macintosh, Amiga, SVR3, SVR4, SunOS, NeXT,
    X Windows, SGI, Amdahl, VAX, 5620, Plan 9, Windows 3.1, Windows 95/98,
    Windows NT, Linux.

Many people have contributed ideas, feedback, assistance, and encouragement
during the development of KeyKit.  Some of them are: Jon Backstrom,
Tom Duff, Geza Feketa, Dick Hamilton, Tony Hansen, John Helton, Tom Killian,
Peter Langston, Hector Levesque, Jason Levitt, Howard Moscovitz,
Marty Shannon, and Daniel Steinberg.

People who have put significant effort into porting KeyKit to various
machines, and who provided significant language and feature feedback
along the way, deserve special mention and special thanks:

	Alan Bland (Amiga)
	Steve Falco (Mac),
	Ag Primatic (Mac),
	Jack Wright (Mac),
	Mike Healy (Atari ST)
	Gregg Wonderly (Amiga)
	Greg Youngdahl (DOS)
