This describes the multiport features of 7.0

The GUI has a "Port Enabler" tool that lets you
see and enable/disable each MIDI input and output port.
Once you see what the names of the ports are, you can
add lines like this to your lib/prerc.k:

	inport("MIDI INPUT 1")
	inport("MIDI INPUT 2")
	outport("MIDI OUTPUT 1")
	outport("MIDI OUTPUT 2")

By changing lib/prerc.k, those ports will be opened by default, every
time you start keykit.  As the argument to inport/outport, you can use
the port names that you see in the "Port Enabler" tool. 
It doesn't have to match the entire string, just some unique part
of it.  Note that you can open multiple inputs and outputs.

In lib/prerc.k, you'll see that on Windows (which is the only
thing that supports 7.0 currently) the MIDI_MAPPER output device
is opened by default, and it is made the default output port.
You should adjust this to suite your own needs.

You can also use the listports() function to list the ports on the
console, but you'll usually have to scroll to see them all.

There is now a .port attribute of notes.  The value
of .port is a number.  0 is the default value, and has 
special meaning as an unspecified/default port.
MIDI output ports have numbers ranging from 1 to 64,
and MIDI input ports have numbers ranging from 65 to 128.
In a constant phrase expression, ports are specified with 'P'.
For example:

	ph = 'a'
	print ph.port            # prints 0
	ph = 'aP2'
	print ph.port            # prints 2
	ph = 'a,b,cP1,dP2,eP3'   # multiple ports in one phrase

The GUI has a "Port Map" tool that can control how the "merging"
of MIDI input-to-output is done, and also control the default
destination of notes whose port number is set to 0 (the default).
If you, for example, bring up this tool and set the input value
to "MIDI INPUT 1" and the output value to "MIDI OUTPUT 2", then
all MIDI arriving at that input will be routed (assuming Merge=1)
to that output.  This routing applies to all 16 channels of the
MIDI input.  You can also select "default" as the input value.
The output port that you associate with input "default" will be
used as the output port whenever the port number is 0 (i.e. this
should be where most of the output ends up).

There is also a "Port Map Complete" tool that is like "Port Map",
except that it gives you per-channel control.

Changes made in the "Port Map" tools are currently not "persistent",
even if you save them on a page and restore them.

The "Group" tool has a new button attached to each track that
lets you adjust the port that that track will be sent to.

There is a new built-in function called midi(), which is the primitive
that controls the opening and mapping of MIDI ports, and which is
used to build the GUI tools and the inport/output functions.  Usage:

   midi("input","list")      - returns an array of input ports
                               (index is port number, value is port name)
   midi("input","open",n)    - opens input port n (an integer)
   midi("input","close",n)   - closes input port n (an integer)
   midi("input","isopen",n)  - returns non-zero if port n is open

   midi("output","list")     - returns an array of output ports
                               (index is port number, value is port name)
   midi("output","open",n)   - opens output port n (an integer)
   midi("output","close",n)  - closes output port n (an integer)
   midi("output","isopen",n) - returns non-zero if port n is open

   midi("portmap")           - returns an array describing
                               current port mapping values
                               (index is input port #, value is an
                               array of 16 values (output port #'s),
                               one for each channel)

   midi("portmap",inport,chan,outport)
                             - controls the port mapping of a single
                               channel of an input port.  The input
                               port can be 0, in which case it is
                               controlling the default port mapping
                               (when .port==0).

There is a new global variable named "Forceinputport".  If its value
is -1 (which is the default), it has no effect.   If Forceinputport
has a non-negative value, the .port value of all MIDI input will be
automatically forced to that value.  A Forceinputport value of 0
would be the most common use of this feature.
